Hello and welcome.
We're all done studying our gang of twenty three design patterns and we just finished up our behavior
patterns and there were quite a bit of them roughly 11 behavior design patterns.
So in this lecture I just wanted to summarize I want you guys to reflect on all those behavior design
patterns and kind of understand some of their general characteristics and also the differences between
some of the patterns.
So let's start off by just mentioning that encapsulating variation.
This is a theme of many of the behavior patterns you should have known as this encapsulating variation
is a very very important concept.
When an aspect of a program changes frequently these patterns define an object that encapsulates that
AFC right things that change are encapsulated this makes it so other parts the program can collaborate
with the object whatever they depend on that aspect right.
This theme runs through other kinds of patterns.
In addition to the behaviors but it's really popular.
You see this in the Abstract Factory the builder and the prototype.
They all encapsulate knowledge about how objects are created.
The decorator in capsules capitalists responsibility that can be added to an object.
The bridge separates an abstraction from its implementation.
Let them the very independently also with encapsulating variation the strategy object encapsulates an
algorithm the state object encapsulates a state dependent behavior a or object encapsulates the protocol
between objects.
This is a common common theme.
The iterator encapsulates the way you axis and traverse the components of an aggregate object.
Right.
So encapsulating variation very important.
It really promotes that loose coupling not all object behavior patterns work like this.
So for example the chain of responsibility deals with an arbitrary number of objects all of which majority
exists in the system.
Another thing that we discussed was objects as arguments write several patterns introduce an object
that is always used as an argument a visitor object which we just discussed is an argument to a polymorphic
except operation on the object of visits.
The visitor is never considered a part of those objects.
Other patterns define objects to act as magic tokens to be passed around invoked at a later time right
in the Command pattern.
The Tokens represent a request and the momento represents the internal state of an object at a particular
time.
In both cases the token can have a complex internal representation but the client is never aware of
it and again that's key.
That separation polymorphism is important in the Command pattern executing the command object is a polymorphic
operation right and we saw polymorphism also used in strategy and in the state the mental interface
is so narrow that a momento can only be passed as a value right.
We often enclose the memento pattern as an inner class the memento it's likely to present no polymorphic
operations at all to its clients so it's a little different let's talk about the mediator versus the
observer the mediator an observer.
There are competing patterns right.
The Observer distributes communication by introducing an observer and subject objects the mediator object
encapsulates the communication between other objects.
Also in the observer pattern there's no single object that encapsulates a constraint.
The observer in the subject must cooperate to maintain the constraint.
A single subject usually has many observers.
We've seen that sometimes the observer once object is the subject of another observer right in the mediator
pattern.
This centralize is rather than distribute it right.
That's one of the big benefits of the media that centralized location for all communication it places
the responsibility for maintaining a constraint squarely in the mediator it's easier to make reusable
observers and subjects than to make reusable mediators on the other hand it is easier to understand
the flow of communication in the mediator than in the Observer.
The Observer and the subjects are usually connected shortly after they have been created.
It's often hard to see how they are connected later in the program.
The level of interaction that the observer introduce will make a system harder to understand let's also
talk about decoupling senders and receivers which is a common theme of these behavior patterns.
All right we saw that when collaborating objects refer to each other directly they become dependent
on each other.
We know that dependencies are not a good thing.
They can have an adverse impact on the layering in their usability of a system.
They introduced bugs as well.
The command the observer the mediator and the chain of responsibility address how you can decouple the
senders and receivers but with different tradeoffs.
So for example the command pattern supports decoupling by using a command object to define the binding
between the sender and receiver.
That's one difference.
Behavior patterns also work together.
They complement and reinforce each other a class and a chain of responsibility will probably include
at least one application of a template method.
The template method can use primitive operations to determine whether the object should handle the request
and to choose the object of forward to.
That would be a very good use case a class in the chain of responsibility can use the command pattern
to represent request as objects.
An interpreter can use the stay pattern to define passing contexts an iterator can traverse and aggregate
in a visitor can apply an operation to each element in the aggregate.
That's very very apparent behavior patterns working with other patterns as well.
A system that uses the composite pattern might use a visitor to perform operations on components of
the composition a composite could use the chain of responsibility to let components access global properties
through the parent.
A composite could also use a decorator to override these properties on parts of the composition.
A composite should use the observer pattern to tie one object structure to another in the state pattern
to let a component change its behavior as its state changes we can reduce those conditional statements.
The composition itself might be created using the approach in the builder well-designed object oriented
systems have multiple patterns embedded in them.
And so this summarizes the behavior patterns how they work together how they're very similar and also
the common themes that they employ right.
Passing objects is arguments
encapsulating variation very very important concept and themes related to most behavior patterns.
So thank you.
I hope you learned a lot about the behavior patterns.